README.md, before:

# Matomo (formerly Piwik) - matomo.org

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/matomo/matomo/v/stable)](https://matomo.org/download/)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/matomo/matomo/v/unstable)](https://builds.matomo.org/)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/piwik/piwik/license)](https://matomo.org/free-software/)

## Code Status

[![Matomo Tests](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo/actions/workflows/matomo-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo/actions/workflows/matomo-tests.yml)
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/matomo-org/matomo.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/matomo-org/matomo "Percentage of issues still open")

## Description

Matomo is the leading Free/Libre open analytics platform.

Matomo is a full-featured PHP MySQL software program that you download and install on your own webserver.
At the end of the five-minute installation process, you will be given a JavaScript code.
Simply copy and paste this tag on websites you wish to track and access your analytics reports in real-time.

Matomo aims to be a Free software alternative to Google Analytics and is already used on more than 1,400,000 websites. Privacy is built-in!

## Mission Statement

> « To create, as a community, the leading international open source digital analytics platform, that gives every user full control of their data. »

Or in short:
> « Liberate Web Analytics »

## License

Matomo is released under the GPL v3 (or later) license, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Requirements

  * PHP 7.2.5 or greater
  * MySQL version 5.5 or greater, or MariaDB 
  * PHP extension pdo and pdo_mysql, or the MySQLi extension
  * Matomo is OS / server independent

See https://matomo.org/docs/requirements/.

## Install Matomo

  * [Download Matomo](https://matomo.org/download/)
  * Upload matomo to your webserver
  * Point your browser to the directory
  * Follow the steps
  * Add the given javascript code to your pages
  * (You may also generate fake data to experiment, by enabling the plugin VisitorGenerator)

See https://matomo.org/docs/installation/.

(When using Matomo for development you need to [install Matomo from the Git repository](https://matomo.org/faq/how-to-install/faq_18271/)).

## Free trial 

If you do not have a server or don't want to host yourself you can use our Matomo Cloud partner service (21 day free trial): https://matomo.org/start-free-analytics-trial/

## Online Demo

Check out the online demo for Matomo at [demo.matomo.cloud](https://demo.matomo.cloud/).

## Changelog

For the list of all tickets closed in the current and past releases, see [matomo.org/changelog/](https://matomo.org/changelog/). For the list of technical changes in the Matomo platform, see [developer.matomo.org/changelog](https://developer.matomo.org/changelog).

## Get involved!

We believe in liberating Web Analytics, providing a free platform for simple and advanced analytics. Matomo was built by dozens of people like you,
and we need your help to make Matomo better… Why not participate in a useful project today? [Learn how you can contribute to Matomo](https://matomo.org/get-involved).

## Translations

Our translations are managed on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/matomo/).

[![Translation Status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/matomo/-/horizontal-auto.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/matomo/)

## Quality Assurance

The Matomo project uses an ever-expanding comprehensive set of thousands of unit tests and hundreds of automated integration tests, system tests, JavaScript tests, and screenshot UI tests, running on a continuous integration server as part of its software quality assurance. [Learn more](https://developer.matomo.org/guides/tests).

We use [BrowserStack.com](https://www.browserstack.com/) testing tool to help check the Matomo user interface is compatible with many browsers.

## Security

Security is a top priority at Matomo. As potential issues are discovered, we validate, patch and release fixes as quickly as we can. We have a security bug bounty program in place that rewards researchers for finding security issues and disclosing them to us. 

[Learn more](https://matomo.org/security/) or check out our [HackerOne program](https://hackerone.com/matomo).

## Support for Matomo

For **Free support**, post a message in our community forums: [forum.matomo.org](https://forum.matomo.org/)

For **Professional paid support**, purchase a Matomo On-Premises Support Plan: [matomo.org/support-plans](https://matomo.org/support-plans/)  

## Contact

Website: [matomo.org](https://matomo.org)

About us: [matomo.org/team/](https://matomo.org/team/)

Contact us: [matomo.org/contact/](https://matomo.org/contact/)


## More information

What makes Matomo unique from the competition:

  * You own your web analytics data: since Matomo is installed on your server, the data is stored in your own database and you can get all the statistics using the powerful Matomo Analytics API.

  * Matomo is a Free Software which can easily be configured to respect your visitors' privacy.

  * Modern, easy to use User Interface: you can fully customize your dashboard, drag and drop widgets and more.

  * Matomo features are built inside plugins: you can add new features and remove the ones you don’t need.
    You can build your own web analytics plugins or hire a consultant to have your custom feature built-in Matomo.

  * A vibrant international Open community of more than 200,000 active users (tracking even more websites!)

  * Advanced Web Analytics capabilities such as E-commerce Tracking, Goal tracking, Campaign tracking,
    Custom Variables, Email Reports, Custom Segment Editor, Geo Location, Real-time visits and maps, [and a lot more!](https://matomo.org/feature-overview/)

Documentation and more info on https://matomo.org.

We are together creating the best open analytics platform in the world!

Commit message:

add one-click deploy to readme

README.md, after:

# Matomo (formerly Piwik) - matomo.org

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/matomo/matomo/v/stable)](https://matomo.org/download/)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/matomo/matomo/v/unstable)](https://builds.matomo.org/)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/piwik/piwik/license)](https://matomo.org/free-software/)

## Code Status

[![Matomo Tests](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo/actions/workflows/matomo-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo/actions/workflows/matomo-tests.yml)
[![Percentage of issues still open](http://isitmaintained.com/badge/open/matomo-org/matomo.svg)](http://isitmaintained.com/project/matomo-org/matomo "Percentage of issues still open")

## Description

Matomo is the leading Free/Libre open analytics platform.

Matomo is a full-featured PHP MySQL software program that you download and install on your own webserver.
At the end of the five-minute installation process, you will be given a JavaScript code.
Simply copy and paste this tag on websites you wish to track and access your analytics reports in real-time.

Matomo aims to be a Free software alternative to Google Analytics and is already used on more than 1,400,000 websites. Privacy is built-in!

## Mission Statement

> « To create, as a community, the leading international open source digital analytics platform, that gives every user full control of their data. »

Or in short:
> « Liberate Web Analytics »

## License

Matomo is released under the GPL v3 (or later) license, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Requirements

  * PHP 7.2.5 or greater
  * MySQL version 5.5 or greater, or MariaDB 
  * PHP extension pdo and pdo_mysql, or the MySQLi extension
  * Matomo is OS / server independent

See https://matomo.org/docs/requirements/.

## Install Matomo

  * [Download Matomo](https://matomo.org/download/)
  * Upload matomo to your webserver
  * Point your browser to the directory
  * Follow the steps
  * Add the given javascript code to your pages
  * (You may also generate fake data to experiment, by enabling the plugin VisitorGenerator)

See https://matomo.org/docs/installation/.

(When using Matomo for development you need to [install Matomo from the Git repository](https://matomo.org/faq/how-to-install/faq_18271/)).

## Deploy Matomo

Deploy Matomo to Dome in [one-click](https://app.trydome.io/signup?package=matomo):

[![Deploy to Dome](https://trydome.io/button.svg)](https://app.trydome.io/signup?package=matomo)

## Free trial 

If you do not have a server or don't want to host yourself you can use our Matomo Cloud partner service (21 day free trial): https://matomo.org/start-free-analytics-trial/

## Online Demo

Check out the online demo for Matomo at [demo.matomo.cloud](https://demo.matomo.cloud/).

## Changelog

For the list of all tickets closed in the current and past releases, see [matomo.org/changelog/](https://matomo.org/changelog/). For the list of technical changes in the Matomo platform, see [developer.matomo.org/changelog](https://developer.matomo.org/changelog).

## Get involved!

We believe in liberating Web Analytics, providing a free platform for simple and advanced analytics. Matomo was built by dozens of people like you,
and we need your help to make Matomo better… Why not participate in a useful project today? [Learn how you can contribute to Matomo](https://matomo.org/get-involved).

## Translations

Our translations are managed on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/matomo/).

[![Translation Status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/matomo/-/horizontal-auto.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/matomo/)

## Quality Assurance

The Matomo project uses an ever-expanding comprehensive set of thousands of unit tests and hundreds of automated integration tests, system tests, JavaScript tests, and screenshot UI tests, running on a continuous integration server as part of its software quality assurance. [Learn more](https://developer.matomo.org/guides/tests).

We use [BrowserStack.com](https://www.browserstack.com/) testing tool to help check the Matomo user interface is compatible with many browsers.

## Security

Security is a top priority at Matomo. As potential issues are discovered, we validate, patch and release fixes as quickly as we can. We have a security bug bounty program in place that rewards researchers for finding security issues and disclosing them to us. 

[Learn more](https://matomo.org/security/) or check out our [HackerOne program](https://hackerone.com/matomo).

## Support for Matomo

For **Free support**, post a message in our community forums: [forum.matomo.org](https://forum.matomo.org/)

For **Professional paid support**, purchase a Matomo On-Premises Support Plan: [matomo.org/support-plans](https://matomo.org/support-plans/)  

## Contact

Website: [matomo.org](https://matomo.org)

About us: [matomo.org/team/](https://matomo.org/team/)

Contact us: [matomo.org/contact/](https://matomo.org/contact/)


## More information

What makes Matomo unique from the competition:

  * You own your web analytics data: since Matomo is installed on your server, the data is stored in your own database and you can get all the statistics using the powerful Matomo Analytics API.

  * Matomo is a Free Software which can easily be configured to respect your visitors' privacy.

  * Modern, easy to use User Interface: you can fully customize your dashboard, drag and drop widgets and more.

  * Matomo features are built inside plugins: you can add new features and remove the ones you don’t need.
    You can build your own web analytics plugins or hire a consultant to have your custom feature built-in Matomo.

  * A vibrant international Open community of more than 200,000 active users (tracking even more websites!)

  * Advanced Web Analytics capabilities such as E-commerce Tracking, Goal tracking, Campaign tracking,
    Custom Variables, Email Reports, Custom Segment Editor, Geo Location, Real-time visits and maps, [and a lot more!](https://matomo.org/feature-overview/)

Documentation and more info on https://matomo.org.

We are together creating the best open analytics platform in the world!
